In our rapidly changing world,
understanding the collective power of individual positive actions
is more important than ever.
As we go about our daily lives we may not realise it,
but our future is more determined by the predictable,
little actions that we all take every day,
than the big external forces that shape our world.
Small actions now create
big results in the future.
There are many examples where this plays out,
but let's take a look at recycling – something that many of us do every day.
In Queensland in 2016,
more than 500,000 tonnes of recyclable materials were saved
from going to landfill
through the everyday simple efforts of separating our rubbish
into separate bins.
Just to put that in perspective,
that's the equivalent of 6304 Humpback whales or 68 Eiffel towers,
or 352 of the world's
largest ever rocket! The small collective efforts of many people working
together can really add up!
Recordkeeping is a bit like that too.
It takes a few minutes out of your day,
and it's everyone's responsibility to do their bit.
The small efforts that you take to make and keep
accurate records benefit all of us.
It benefits you as an individual,
because when you make a record you can refer to it later.
It benefits your team and your agency,
as information can be shared and reused across the organisation.
It creates a more transparent and accountable Government.
And at a wider level, it benefits Queenslanders,
both now and into the future and
It creates a collection of data and information
that future Queenslanders can access
and use in ways that we can't even imagine right now.
Making and keeping records may not seem like a high priority- after all,
you can remember what you've done,
you can always check with your colleagues
if you need to get the full picture from your team,
and you're not clear if it's your role anyway.
Let's look forward into the near future- say just one year from now.
Your recollection of what you did today's not so clear.
Some key colleagues have moved on,
and you're looking for information to do your job.
Now it takes quite a bit of time to go back and try to search for information
about the work you're doing today.
Without recordkeeping, some pieces of the puzzle are missing.
Now let's fast forward far into the future.
We don't know exactly how many generations to come
will use the records we're keeping now.
But we trust that they will need them, and when they do,
the complete story (records and contextual information) will be available.
Recordkeeping is something you have to do as part of your job,
so you may be wondering, Why do I need to make and keep records?
What is the value of creating and keeping records?
How to Make, Keep and Dispose of Records?
We've created an eLearning module that is designed to help
you make sense of recordkeeping.
It's called ‘Recordkeeping and You'. We know you're busy.
It's just 10 minutes.
You can do it anywhere, anytime.
Check it out on your phone, tablet or computer.
It's practical. This is a really great use of your time.
We guarantee that this training will save you more than 10 minutes
through more efficient recordkeeping.
Do you know?
The dollar figure if all public employees spend 5 minutes a day
looking for a record is upwards of $500,000 per day!
So, visit the Queensland Government recordkeeping
website for more information and resources.
Recordkeeping. Small actions now create big results in the future.
It's worth your time.